First 100 Days Exercise

APRIL 3, 2020

Everyone is impacted when uncertain times occur,
entrepreneurs not excluded. It’s typical to be caught
off guard when something bad happens, so the question
is, how do you minimize the uncertainty of a situation
and maximize your response to it?

Having worked with thousands of entrepreneurs over the
last few decades, we are confident that entrepreneurs
have the answers to the current challenges facing
them. In uncertain times, we have to envision a future
that doesn’t exist yet, one that will keep us
motivated and innovative, and prepared for growth.

Dan Sullivan created this thinking tool in direct
response to the current situation with the COVID-19
virus, but it can apply to any future scary situation.
This tool enables entrepreneurs to transform their
uncertainty and negativity into something
positive—into a bigger and better way to run their
business. Instead of dwelling in reaction mode,
thinking and acting only in response to short-term
needs and concerns, with this tool, you can put
yourself in creative mode, working in full force to
prepare for the next 100 days.

How to use the First 100 Days tool:

1. The first three columns—Morale, Momentum, and
Motivation—are set up as areas of reflection based in
three different time zones. The first, Morale, is
everything that you’ve done up until now that has
prepared you, in both your personal and business life,
to be at your best right now.

2. In the second time zone, Momentum, you’ll consider
all the things that are working for you right now.
Identify your best resources and capabilities that are
already pushing you forward.

3. In the third time zone, Motivation, you’ll look
forward to new opportunities that are suddenly
possible because of the changing landscape and
marketplace.

4. In the bottom portion of this exercise, list five
tangible and practical initiatives that you are going
to focus on with your team in the next hundred days.
What this section does is prepare you for a date in
the future, now armed with the knowledge of what was
normal before and what you’re being presented with
right now.

The reality is, things will never go back to “normal”
because our landscape will shift, creating endless new
possibilities. Start planning now and enjoy complete
freedom to create bigger and better things using the
skills and knowledge you’ve accumulated through this
scary time.  
